Write state probabilities closed form formula (#16)
11michalis11/Thesis: chapters/03_queueing_model/06_closed_form_steady_state_probs/main.tex

\subsubsection{Closed-form approach}

> This section aims to investigate the connection between Markov chains and graph
> theory by exploring alternative ways of calculating the steady state
> probabilities and considering the problem from different perspectives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section aims to explore alternative ways of calculating the steady state
probabilities using the connection between Markov chains and graph
theory.
```

\paragraph{Parameters}

> The parameters considered as inputs are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As described in Section~\ref{} % TODO refer to correct section
, the parameters considered as inputs are: 
```

\begin{itemize}
    \item the number of servers \(C\),
    \item the threshold \(T\),
    \item the capacity of node 1 \(N\),
    \item the capacity of node 2 \(M\).
\end{itemize}

Additional parameters of the model are the type 1 individuals arrival rate,
the type 2 individuals arrival rate and the service rate (\(\lambda_1,
\lambda_2, \mu\)).
More specifically, the way these parameters are translated into the model are:

\begin{itemize}

>     \item \textbf{Number of servers (\(C\)):} Affects the weight of all edges

Reviewer: Is there a jump here to directly talking about edges? Or have we spoken about the graph before?

Author: Yeah, this is the first time I'm talking about the Markov Chain as a graph

    be \(0\).
    \item \textbf{Node 1 capacity (\(N\)):} Is the upper bound of \(v\)
    for all  states \((u,v)\).
    \item \textbf{Node 2 capacity (\(M\)):} Is the upper bound of \(u\)
    for all states \((u,v)\) such that \(v \geq T\).
\end{itemize}

\paragraph{Example figure of Markov Model}

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \scalebox{0.7}{
        \input{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/example_model_1352/main.tex}
        }
    \caption{\(C=1, T=3, N=5, M=2\)}
    \label{fig:Markov_1352_example_for_closed_form}
\end{figure}

In Figure~\ref{fig:Markov_1352_example_for_closed_form} an example of such a
Markov model is shown where \(C=1\), \(T=3\) which means that the \textit{left
arm} of the model has a length of \(3\), \(N=5\) that indicates that the
right-most states \((u,v)\) are of the form \((u,5)\) and \(M=2\) that
equivalently shows that the bottom states are of the form \((2,v)\).

\paragraph{A graph theoretic model underlying the Markov chain}

An additional approach that one may consider to get the state probabilities is
the graph theoretical approach for state probabilities.
Thus, it can be assumed that a Markov chain model \(M\) can be translated as a

> weighted directed graph \(G_M = (V, E)\) where \(V=S\) from

Reviewer: I think this needs to come before the previous section.

I don't think the wording is correct either, it's not "Thus," but it can just be assumed.

Reviewer: Yeah. I think formally defining the graph $G=(V,E)$ has to come before anything else.

the graph that visits all the vertices of the graph and does not include any
cycles.
Unlike undirected spanning trees, directed ones also have a root which means
that a directed spanning tree that is rooted at a vertex \(v\) has to have a
path from any other vertex to vertex \(v\).
For example, consider the graph shown in Figure~\ref{fig:example_spanning_tree}.
The graph points out a spanning tree that is rooted at vertex 3.

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \begin{tikzpicture}
        \node[state](u1){1};
        \node[state, right=of u1](u2){2};
        \node[state, right=of u2](u3){3};
        \node[state, right=of u3](u4){4};
        \node[state, below=of u2](u5){5};
        \node[state, below=of u3](u6){6};
        \node[state, below=of u4](u7){7};
        \draw[->, thick] (u1) -- (u2);
        \draw[->, thick] (u2) -- (u3);
        \draw[->, thick] (u4) -- (u3);
        \draw[->, thick] (u5) -- (u2);
        \draw[->, thick] (u6) -- (u5);
        \draw[->, thick] (u7) -- (u6);
    \end{tikzpicture}
    \caption{Spanning tree of a graph rooted at vertex 3}
    \label{fig:example_spanning_tree}
\end{figure}

> Additionally, let us denote the set of all spanning trees of \(G\) as \(T(G)\)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us denote the set of all spanning trees of \(G\) as \(T(G)\)
```

and the subset of \(T(G)\) that includes only the spanning trees that are rooted
at vertex \(v\) as \(T_v(G)\).
The weight of a spanning tree \(t\) can be defined as the product of the weights

> of the edges it contains:

Reviewer: A number of these definitions need pointers at  a text book reference.

    \hspace{4em} & \tilde{\pi}_{(0,0)} = \mu^3[\lambda_2 + \mu] \hspace{5em} &
    \tilde{\pi}_{(0,0)} = \mu^4[(\lambda_2)^2 + \lambda_2 \lambda_1 + 2\lambda_2
    \mu + \mu^2]
\end{alignat}

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \scalebox{0.8}{
        \input{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/example_model_1141/main.tex}}
\end{figure}
\begin{equation}\label{eq:00_rate_1141}
    \tilde{\pi}_{(0,0)} = \mu^5[(\lambda_2)^3 + 2(\lambda_2)^2 \lambda_1 +
    3(\lambda_2)^2 \mu + \lambda_2 (\lambda_1)^2 + 2\lambda_2 \lambda_1 \mu +
    3\lambda_2 \mu^2 + \mu^3]
\end{equation}

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \scalebox{0.8}{
        \input{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/example_model_1151/main.tex}}
\end{figure}
\begin{align}\label{eq:00_rate_1151}
    \tilde{\pi}_{(0,0)} =& \mu^6[(\lambda_2)^4 + 3(\lambda_2)^3 \lambda_1 +
    4(\lambda_2)^3 \mu + 3(\lambda_2)^2 (\lambda_1)^2 +
    6(\lambda_2)^2 \lambda_1 \mu \\
    & + 6(\lambda_2)^2 \mu^2 + \lambda_2 (\lambda_1)^3 +
    2\lambda_2 (\lambda_1)^2 \mu + 3\lambda_2 \lambda_1 \mu^2 +
    4\lambda_2 \mu^3 + \mu^4] \nonumber
\end{align}

As explained in equation~(\ref{eq:rows_conjecture_general}) the expressions

> defined above can boil down to a general form equation of the form

Reviewer: ```suggestion
defined above can reduced to a general form equation of the form
```

\textit{threshold column} and on the \textit{arm} of the model.
In general the set of edges that are present on all spanning trees can be
denoted by:
\begin{align} \label{eq:common_edges_set}
    S &= S_1 \cup S_2 \cup S_3 \nonumber\\
    S_2 &= \{(M,v) \rightarrow (M,v-1) \; | \; T < v \leq N\} \nonumber \\
    S_1 &= \{(u,T) \rightarrow (u-1,T) \; | \; 0 < u \leq M\} \nonumber \\
    S_3 &= \{(0,v) \rightarrow (0,v-1) \; | \; 0 < v \leq T\} \nonumber \\
\end{align}

In addition, these edges that are common to every spanning tree (for a threshold
of \(T=1\)) have the same weight of \(\mu\).
In this specified model there are four of these edges, each with a weight of
\(\mu\).
Thus, since these edges exist on all spanning trees, the weight of every
spanning tree must have include a term \(\mu^4\).
Consider the expression of \(\tilde{\pi}_{(0,0)}\) associated with this Markov
model:

\begin{equation}\label{eq:pi_00_rate_example}
    \tilde{\pi}_{(0,0)} = \mu^4[(\lambda_2)^2 + \lambda_2 \lambda_1
    + 2\lambda_2 \mu + \mu^2]
\end{equation}

It can be seen that there is a \(\mu^4\) term that is a common factor of all the
 terms.

> This term can be more generally calculated as \(\mu^{M+N}\) and by not worrying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This term can be more generally calculated as \(\mu^{M+N}\) and by not considering
```
